Add a blog post about Netconomy use cases (#508)
kyma-project/website: content/blog-posts/2019-12-20-netconomy-use-case/index.md

-   As everyone works on the same code base, coordination efforts and communication overhead increased significantly.
-   We started seeing some regression bugs, especially when junior engineers did not yet fully understand the complete system.
-   Building the project (and executing all necessary test suites and quality analytics) took more and more time.
-   This led to developers being blocked when trying to integrate their code into a release, especially at the end of an iteration.
-   Deployments, although were fully automated, still became riskier as for any change, no matter how small, the complete application had to be deployed.
-   Scaling the system with load requirements became quite hard and expensive.
-   In general, development progress was significantly slower and features became more costly to build.  

> All these points are well-known downsides of large monolithic applications. In addition, we noticed that over time it became very tough and expensive to experiment. Even the smallest feature trials had to wait for a long time to be integrated, tested and deployed at the next deployment date. This is when we knew we needed to change something.

Reviewer: Last point should not be in the list, but

In the end, we want to use the strengths of both worlds: a strong monolithic core with stable commerce processes and extensions to the core with a set of self-contained microservices that are independently developed and scaled.

## First service in Kyma

We identified the typeahead search as the first candidate to be moved to Kyma. The typeahead search is a feature that,  shows suggested search results in a pop-up box, while the user is typing in the search box on the website. The results show up according to some very specific and dynamic business rules. Our implementation of this feature in Kyma consists of two services:  

-   Index service which creates the search index that is used to create the typeahead search suggestions.
-   Query service which uses the created index to serve search requests by API clients.  

    

> For general search and navigation functionality, the platform uses a third-party search and merchandising cloud product. Every time the SAP Commerce platform creates a data feed exporting all product information to this third-party cloud, the same data feed is also pushed to our index service. This service analyzes the data feed, retrieves and aggregates all necessary other data from the search & merchandize cloud and then builds its own search index to be used by the query service. As soon as the index creation is finished the query service is informed using a Kyma event. Then the query service downloads the new index and swaps the index it uses to serve API consumers without a runtime. The amount of pods that the query service uses is scaled automatically by the number of requests hitting the system. The connection between SAP Commerce and the Kyma cluster is managed by the built-in Kyma Application Connector, which ensures a secure and stable connection between the two systems.

Reviewer 2: once search and merchandising cloud, than search & merchandize cloud --> pls change to 1 term

> For general search and navigation functionality, the platform uses a third-party search and merchandising cloud product. Every time the SAP Commerce platform creates a data feed exporting all product information to this third-party cloud, the same data feed is also pushed to our index service. This service analyzes the data feed, retrieves and aggregates all necessary other data from the search & merchandize cloud and then builds its own search index to be used by the query service. As soon as the index creation is finished the query service is informed using a Kyma event. Then the query service downloads the new index and swaps the index it uses to serve API consumers without a runtime. The amount of pods that the query service uses is scaled automatically by the number of requests hitting the system. The connection between SAP Commerce and the Kyma cluster is managed by the built-in Kyma Application Connector, which ensures a secure and stable connection between the two systems.

Reviewer 2: Instead of: 
Then the query service downloads the new index and swaps the index it uses to serve API consumers without a runtime.

Then the query service downloads the new index and swaps the index it uses to serve API consumers without a **downtime**.

Reviewer: even better: "...without downtime"

The first part of the project was to identify which components of the monolithic application should first be split out into self-contained services. Since SAP Commerce has a strong, connected and integrated core, it was clear that it would make no sense to split out any random business object and move it to a microservice. Going this route we would have lost a lot of out-of-the-box functionality - which is not what we wanted. Nevertheless, we found many features that had been built on top of the core that were a perfect fit for splitting them into microservices.

In the end we want to use the strengths of both worlds: a strong monolith core with stable commerce processes and extensions to the core with a set of self-contained microservices that are independently developed and scaled.

## First service in Kyma

> We identified the type-ahead search as a first candidate to be moved to Kyma. Type-ahead search is a feature that, while the user is typing in the search box on the website, shows suggested search results in a popup box, according to some very specific/dynamic business rules. Our implementation of this feature in Kyma consists of two services:  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We identified the typeahead search as the first candidate to be moved to Kyma. The typeahead search is a feature that,  shows suggested search results in a pop-up box, while the user is typing in the search box on the website. The results show up according to some very specific and dynamic business rules. Our implementation of this feature in Kyma consists of two services:  
```

> -   Index service  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-   Index service which creates the search index that is used to create the typeahead search suggestions.
```

>     This service creates the search index that is used to create the type-ahead search suggestions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

> -   Query service  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-   Query service which uses the created index to serve search requests by API clients.  

```

>     This service uses the created index to serve search requests by API clients.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

> For general search and navigation functionality the platform uses a third party search and merchandising cloud product. Every time the SAP Commerce platform creates a data feed exporting all product information to this third party cloud the same data feed is also pushed to our index service.This service analyzes the data feed, retrieves and aggregates all necessary other data from the search & merchandize cloud and then builds its own search index to be used by the query service.As soon as the index creation is finished the query service is informed using a Kyma event. The query service then downloads the new index and swaps the index it uses to serve API consumers without at runtime. The amount of pods that the query service uses is scaled automatically by number of requests hitting the system. The connection between SAP Commerce and the Kyma cluster is managed by the built-in Kyma Application Connector, which ensures secure and stable connectivity between the two systems.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For general search and navigation functionality, the platform uses a third-party search and merchandising cloud product. Every time the SAP Commerce platform creates a data feed exporting all product information to this third-party cloud, the same data feed is also pushed to our index service. This service analyzes the data feed, retrieves and aggregates all necessary other data from the search & merchandize cloud and then builds its own search index to be used by the query service. As soon as the index creation is finished the query service is informed using a Kyma event. Then the query service downloads the new index and swaps the index it uses to serve API consumers without a runtime. The amount of pods that the query service uses is scaled automatically by the number of requests hitting the system. The connection between SAP Commerce and the Kyma cluster is managed by the built-in Kyma Application Connector, which ensures a secure and stable connection between the two systems.
```

![](./suggest_kyma.png)

> **Figure 1: Type-ahead search in Kyma**  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Figure 1: Typeahead search in Kyma**  
```

## Learnings

> Since mid-2019 we operate a Kyma cluster in production use - so far without any major issues. The platform is stable and straightforward to operate as any Kubernetes cluster. Due to the fact that Kyma comes with a set of monitoring tools included, we connected it to our existing central monitoring system. We decided to not change the tools and frameworks Kyma is using, instead we believe in forwarding metrics and logs. This pattern prevents manual adaptations in the Kyma source which makes updating Kyma to newer versions easy.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since mid-2019 we have operated a Kyma cluster in production use - so far without any major issues. The platform is stable and straightforward to operate as any Kubernetes cluster. Due to the fact that Kyma comes with a set of monitoring tools included, we connected it to our existing central monitoring system. We decided not to change the tools and frameworks Kyma uses, instead, we believe in forwarding metrics and logs. This pattern prevents manual adaptations in the Kyma source which makes updating Kyma to newer versions easy.  
```

> What really impressed us is the possibility of doing fast iterations and feedback loops. As a deployment of services through our fully automated build and deployment pipelines is just taking minutes, it is very easy to do changes to the system.Development teams can work in a much more independent and autonomous way now.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
What really impressed us is the possibility of doing fast iterations and feedback loops. As the deployment of services through our fully automated build and deployment pipelines takes just minutes, it is very easy to do changes to the system. Development teams can work in a much more independent and autonomous way now.  
```

> As the platform is serving a lot of users, load testing became a crucial task before bringing the services to production. After identifying and fixing some issues related to ISTIO service mesh together with the Kyma team, we had no problems sizing the services dynamically as resource-considerate as possible. Horizontal autoscaling gives the services the possibility to react to peaks within seconds.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As the platform serves a lot of users, load testing became a crucial task before bringing the services to production. After identifying and fixing some issues related to Istio service mesh together with the Kyma team, we had no problems sizing the services dynamically as resource-considerate as possible. Horizontal autoscaling gives the services the possibility to react to peaks within seconds.  
```

> During development of these first services we created a proof of concept for a performance-critical part of the system with different programming languages/frameworks. We were surprised how much difference there was in the results between different languages, saving our client a lot of money in compute resources. A benefit of running on Kubernetes now is the possibility to do these comparisons every time we need to and use the language that best fits the problem.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
During the development of these first services, we created a proof of concept for a performance-critical part of the system with different programming languages and frameworks. We were surprised how much difference it made in the results between particular languages, saving our client a lot of money in compute resources. A benefit of running on Kubernetes is the possibility to do these comparisons every time we need to and use the language that best fits the problem.  
```

One difficulty that we saw in this first project was that initially not all developers had significant experience with Kubernetes. We had to invest in extensive training, as the learning curve for Kubernetes is quite steep.

## Taking the next steps

> After successfully launching Kyma and the first services we now plan to onboard the complete development organization working for our client on Kyma. Besides training and getting to know the new technologies, we see it as crucial to help our teams adapt a new mindset of experimentation and trying out things. Having the possibility to deploy changes frequently also means that we have to work together with the business stakeholders in a different way and build up a mindset of rapid experimentation within the whole organization. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After launching Kyma and the first services successfully, we now plan to onboard the complete development organization working for our client on Kyma. Besides training and getting to know the new technologies, we see it as crucial to help our teams to adopt a new mindset of experimentation and trying out things. Having the possibility to deploy changes frequently also means that we have to work together with the business stakeholders in a different way and build up a mindset of rapid experimentation within the whole organization. 
```

> Additionally, we already learned that in future we need to focus on the general architecture of the complete system in an even more detailed fashion than the teams are used to. We must establish clear rules, guidelines and the right mindset for teams to independently decide where to build new features - on Kyma or on the SAP Commerce platform. To support this we established regular additional inter-team coordination meetings so that all teams are aware of the big picture.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Additionally, we have already learned that in the future we need to focus on the general architecture of the complete system in an even more detailed fashion than the teams are used to. We must establish clear rules, guidelines and the right mindset for teams to independently decide where to build new features - on Kyma or on the SAP Commerce platform. To support this we established regular additional inter-team coordination meetings so that all teams are aware of the big picture.  
```

> Together with our client we created a roadmap of the next services we are splitting off to Kyma and we are already hard at work to build them. Some of the services will become mission critical, some will end up as failed experiments and not be in production for long. With Kyma we now have the power and flexibility to do this in an efficient and agile way. Keep experimenting!  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Together with our client, we created a roadmap for the next services we want to split to Kyma and we have already started to work hard to build them. Some of the services will become mission-critical, some will end up as failed experiments and will not be in production for long. With Kyma we now have the power and flexibility to do this in an efficient and agile way. Keep experimenting!  
```
